
## This is the third homework for STATS 545A.

The results of the dplyr exploration along with the ggplots can be found ![here]https://github.com/Shirlett/STAT545-hw-Hall-Shirlett/blob/master/HW03/STAT545A_HW03.md.


### Reflection

This homework involved the heavy use of dplyr and ggplot. Creating the graphs with ggplot was fairly straighforward but deriving the data to build the graphs was a bit more challenging. The stretch goal for the layout was the most time-consuming task.

In order to find the spread of per capita data, my intent was to generate a fivenum summary to match the associated box-plot. However, I could not find a way to automatically generate the bottom quartile, median etc without specifying each value. The 'do' function was the closest possibility but I did not see how it could be used for my intent. I simply created two variables for the interquartile figure and the median which was further supported by the boxplot in ggplot.

There were also some tables that could not be readily converted to a two dimensional ggplot. The table generated by finding the maximum and minimum GDP per capita had to be reconfigured (ie. melted) so that the two resulting columns were collapsed to one. 

I also desired to add labels on the Line Chart showing the trend in Life expectancy. Although there is an associated legend, the coloring requires too much back and forth eye movement to find a link between the line and the continent. To resolve this problem, I found a code that places the continent label right next to the line. This code can be found at https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29357612/plot-labels-at-ends-of-lines

Finally, a major area of difficulty was the layout of the charts alongside the tables. I found a possible solution with knitr but the tables were already done in pander and there did not seem to be a way I could easily use knitr to join a pander table with a ggplot. I was able to find a straightforward solution using the gridExtra package at this website:https://www.r-bloggers.com/plotting-tables-alsongside-charts-in-r/
There were limitations with this solution for tables that were far longer than the companion graphs. I was forced to continue separating the visuals for two of the six cases.










